good morning everybody hello YouTube
this is cheap things outdoors I'm
otherwise known as Johnny and we are
going out to the woods for a bit today
to do some testing on a new knife that I
got it's the one that I did the mail
call on it this is not gonna be an abuse
test it's gonna be a use test so we're
gonna go out there and see what we got
from bud cave for ten bucks so stick
around let's see what happens
[Music]
all right everybody um we've made it to
our destination so here's what's up
we're going to take this knife and Ferro
rod that I bought from blood kay um I
did a mail call on it um it's this knife
which can also become a spear a little
sheath that I don't know how I feel
about got this itty-bitty little Ferro
rod it goes in a little tiny pocket that
doesn't not even shock cord see you
can't like attach it very first thing
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna stick this in
my pocket so I don't lose it because I
want to use this one for this um tip you
guys down just a little bit um I have a
much bigger Ferro rod actually on my
keychain that is part of my current EDC
or everyday carry for those of you who
are new um and being new is fine this
Ferro rod is going in my pocket because
I want to use this one I don't trust at
all this tiny little niall nylon webbing
pocket keep it there it does have a belt
loop on here uh which will make it ride
really high one of the things about
fifth place that I've noticed from bud K
most of them seem to be all four left
hand carry um he being a righty I guess
the only logic I can see in that is
being a righties of if I was gonna carry
a sidearm I would want it on my right
side and so therefore my blade might go
on my left but it just it just seems
like most of their fixed blade stuff is
all left hand carry sheets maybe that's
the purpose I don't know not a wise man
or maybe I am who knows of course it's
been my experience that most people that
will tell you they are wise men probably
are not so
that being said I'm gonna take you for a
walk around the woods a bit and we're
gonna see how this goes I'm gonna show
you a little bit about what I have as
far as materials go and then we are
gonna make a fire just with this knife
and the Ferro rod maybe baton a little
bit maybe chop a little bit I don't know
I do not have any gloves I do have my
mittens to keep my hands warm but we're
just gonna go from there and see what
happens
alright let's go take a walk around here
a little bit see what's what actually
using my phone today for pretty much all
of this so you're gonna I'm gonna kind
of try and keep the camera pointed at
what I'm looking at sorry the cameras a
little wobbly on the mount there this
stream is actually frozen solid all the
way across so I checked it out before I
started filming well at least this
portion of it so as you can see there's
all kinds of dead stuff just laying on
the ground I do not want dead stuff that
is laying on the ground there is however
we walk over here
dead stuff that has lifted up off the
ground which is good stuff to harvest
there's also a bunch of stuff up over
here on the hillside I camped up there
on that hill a couple of times that's
the neighbor they're building a new
house up there we are actually inside
city limits and still have this kind of
woods available which is pretty amazing
little game trail here I'm gonna follow
for a minute the awesome thing is that
even though this is private property I
actually have permission to be here um
so I'm just kind of looking around and
seeing what's a manageable size that I
think is worthy of you know maybe
carrying back to the fire pit on the
other side of the stream that's not
completely roached out oh what's up here
this might be worth a look
oh look at that
she's a leaner she is definitely a
leaner kind of glad that healthy trees
holding it up otherwise I probably
wouldn't walk underneath it but I'm
going to oh we might have do we have a
winner
ooh and it's birch that means we have
kindling and I believe we are gonna make
a fire out of this one stick and get
back out of here yeah I think this one
birch stick and we're gonna make a fire
well it's not really a stick but we're
gonna go down here a fire pit set camera
back up and uh well in a fixed position
so you guys see me and not what I'm
looking at and do some chopping and some
baton eing
and what's you guys what's that we're
gonna collect some dry prairie grass and
see how this $10 knife off the internet
performs oh yeah this is a really cool
little spot it's nice to have a water
source on the property no it's just ice
right now but I'm not too worried about
that I have ice in the truck for the
record I am NOT intentionally trying to
screw myself by doing this all with one
tool I have an entire truck full of
supplies
I keep preps in the back of my SUV at
all times no matter what I mean there's
everything from a tent to an air
mattress to make sure mrs. Jeep things
outdoors is called
trouble to water to food whatever this
is just a test a working test not a
destruction test of a knife that I
purchased online that's all it is I am
in no way shape or form affiliated with
Bud Kay I do not have any sponsorships I
just want to say that right now this is
the use test not an abuse test I'm gonna
use this knife exactly the way I would
if I was in any camping hunting or
survival situation so that being said
let's get over and start processing this
went down
all right the the lighting for this part
is kind of not so good on my face this
knife out that I brought that I have on
my hip now and harvest some of this
prairie grass that we're gonna use for
tinder after we process the wood and I'm
just gonna kick you guys down and let
you watch me do that for a minute
alright now I'll be plenty to get a nice
little bird's nest going ok so that
knife is really inconvenient to get in
and out pouch on my left hand side under
my jacket so I've just got it laying
here on the ground next to me um so I
know where it's at and I'm gonna break
this down even though it's below
freezing right now this stuff should be
George is drier than a popcorn part I
didn't bring my fire kit with me at all
today so we're just gonna see if I can
do this and if I fail everybody's gonna
know what not to do it won't be the
fault of the knife I'll tell you that
it'll be operator error on my part
kneel down here so I'm not having to
bend way over tip you guys down a little
bit see watch me here need to walk over
here and get some of this really fluffy
stuff to put in the middle of this all
done get my bird's nest going
so I'm kind I got this thing going on
now I'm gonna go get some fluffy stuff
to put right here in the middle to hit
with my Ferro rod after we process this
wood down I always like to get
everything for my fire ready before I
start my fire so I'm not running around
like crazy once I get an actual flame
going to make things happen I like to
have it
everything just ready to go one and done
obviously right now I'm doing fire for
warmth but just the act of getting this
stuff will warm you up because you're
moving around and here I'm just trying
to get as much surface area of this dry
material exposed as I possibly can I
mean you can see I'm just trying pretty
much turning it to dust that is the goal
that's what I'm doing here and I'm gonna
put that in the middle and I'm gonna
turn the camera off for a second I'm
gonna go collect some of this fuzzy
stuff real quick all right so what I've
collected a bunch of these and I assume
that they're like a seed pod I don't
even know what the plant is called at a
certain point you get to where you know
the properties is what matters just
because I don't know the name of a plant
doesn't mean that I can't use it to help
start a fire I know that this stuff is
super dry even though we've had some
precipitation lately because it's up in
the air and it's been breezy and so this
should take a spark from a Ferro rod
fairly easy um and I've got I don't know
a handful of these that I'm gonna put in
the middle of that bird's nest I'm gonna
focus on that after I get this piece off
piece of log processed out before I go
to beatin on this thing
this is birch Park it is it is kind of
damp a little bit but it wasn't it
wasn't laying on the ground so that's
good news and birch I'm gonna harvest
everything off as much of this birch
bark as I can to work on getting my fire
going
yeah that's got a lot of moisture in
those so I don't know
that piece is dry when this stuff is dry
it's it goes up like gasoline I mean no
BS it just does so and the outside of
this might be a little bit damp from the
from the rain we've had and I think
maybe I'm gonna try and just break it
and then we're gonna try and baton it
down to get some to get to some of the
dry stuff in the middle honestly I knew
this would beat on I mean it's a solid
piece of 1045
high carbon steel and I'm just wanting
to get to this dry stuff on the inside
it's the first time I think I've ever
batad would on film this may be the
Bulls bushcrafting thing I've ever done
cuz normally I don't put on anything and
this was giving me some fits but I don't
think it's the fault of the knife I
think it's just solid on the inside I
really do
that's not one break alright I'll be
back in a second alright so since this
piece doesn't want to break in half
we're gonna see how this does this
chopper tip you guys down just a little
bit more so you'll see what's going on
here
now that kind of work I have noticed
that when chopping with this knife
because as you can see that the handles
kind of offset to one side because of
the hollow handle um it tends to want to
walk a little bit in your hand
ah but I mean for what it is I think it
did okay
may possibly have bent it a little bit
not super thick and you know it's for
what it is I think it's doing an amazing
job and then these little pieces that
I'm making I'm gonna use those for some
of my tinder the center of this wood is
actually pretty solid so the outside the
little pipi or punky if you would
all I said Benton I think I actually may
have liked bent the the blade portion of
it not the spine but again it's
something I'm totally not worried about
if this was my only thing at this point
that I had to make a fire I I'm feeling
confident that this is gonna get it done
for me
it's also a knife that I think if I got
it in the dirt which I'm super against
putting the knife in the dirt I kind of
think of it as a really small machete
where I'm not afraid to put it in the
dirt and see if I can break it oh yeah
here we go break this down a few times
going back to a previous video this may
be to bushcraft for my channel I don't
know because I don't think I've ever
done anything that I would consider
bushcraft on my channel but this is this
is getting borderline close for sure
chopping this wood up I might have to
lose layer
and I get split one more time and then
we'll get to building our fire leg yeah
that'll do
it's officially been used and they'll
probably look like this the next time
you see this because I'm happy enough
with it that you will be seeing it again
for sure so let me reposition the camera
and let my niece my eye out just here
and uh we'll get to doing some fire
building this down here I got my wood
set right over here
I felt a little bit barrel rod it came
with
Oh spell rond it came with may
officially be junk okay that's fixedly a
pile of crap so we're gonna try this
feral rod which you cut which is a cog
let's see how it does the striker the
Coghlan comes with its joke
yeah the back of this won't shrink
nothing alright so now we're gonna bust
out my stainless steel pocketknife who
says you need carbon steel strike Ferro
rod the breeze might actually help me
out here well I was off camber I did go
grab another handful of dry grass just
to help our cause
[Music]
trying to feel for the stuff that's the
driest on the inside so we have proof
that you do not need carbon steel to use
a Ferro rod in fact compared to the
carbon steel my stainless pocketknife
was throwing sparks like mad which is
awesome because most of my knives are
stainless steel plus maintenance
involved well there was paper here just
by the way is a pocketknife you guys
have not seen on camera yet Oh
upside down got a cool little picture of
an elk or moose or something on it
spring-assist really hefty actually
tuck that in my hoody there
what's starting to catch
[Music]
when in doubt not feeling bushcraft II
try this
[Music]
some of this is actually wood from the
last time I've had a fire out here well
the stuff that was in the fire pit
already anyway so now I'm curious
because my stainless steel folder
through sparks like mad I'm gonna see if
this barrel rod that came with the
carbon steel knife oh yeah it's the
fault of the knife not the Ferro rod
good little test though still gonna keep
this little Ferro rod
just kind of gathering up all these
little pieces for first Park when I was
processing with a little bit I'm just
gonna keep giving this baby
mouth-to-mouth with those so I get some
of this would catch I said we have had
some precipitation lately so I think
that's what throwing a wrench in my
works other than my carbon steel knife
doesn't like throw sparks off the Ferro
rod imagine that actually quite
surprised I've used birch bark in the
past to help get fire started but I've
never used it when it was damp and even
damp the stuff goes up in that respect
it kinda reminds me of that wood cuz fat
would even limit damp will still usually
take a spark
so would I trust this knife this Amazon
jungle survivor to help me get a fire
started
by itself with a Ferro rod No
would not I think it's gonna be a great
backup knife well probably more like a
backup to a backup yeah I think it's
gonna be like a backup to a backup I'm
not gonna take it out of my bag just yet
um I do like it because you know what's
wrong with having a knife that you don't
care if you bend it or break it or
whatever and again the whole point of it
is you can turn it into a spear um you
know either for hunting or for force
protection against predators if you need
it to
or if shtf happened against other people
or zombies you never know what's gonna
happen um so I'm gonna keep it as part
of my my bug-out slash survival bag um
but what I would not trust it um unless
I had a bit glider with me and being a
smoker I almost always have a bit
lighter with me however if stuff hits
the fan then there might not be any more
big lighters
it's also a knife that I don't mind
poking the fire with which is kind of
nice maybe throw some of this charcoal
for my last fire in here and see if that
takes off where's my last fire is one
that I buried in snow to put it out so
anyway we'll be back folks okay so the
fire isn't raging by any means but you
can see that it is going I haven't done
anything all it intended a little bit
with the stuff that's here so I
successfully made fire with damp wood
with the help of a knife that is okay
for what it is I'm really pleased that
mrs. cheap things outdoors bought it for
me she bought herself one which i think
is pretty awesome you know you have a
good solid outdoors relationships when
you when you when you and your missus
you know buy each other things like
knives and outdoor gear for birthdays
and anniversaries and Christmas and then
there's actually going to be an upcoming
video on this channel of what I got her
for Christmas she absolutely loves it
and you guys might be surprised you know
you know you know you got a solid
outdoor relationship when when you can
buy your missus something like what I
bought her
and get a good reaction out of it all
I'm gonna say is it's all bush crafted
bug-out bag or survival mostly survival
not so much bushcraft and bug out bag
related so anyway I'm gonna kill out
here by the fire gonna win uh enjoy my
cup of coffee I think my buddy Heath is
coming by to hang out we might fly our
drones a little bit I'm just gonna hang
out a little bit and see what happens
and don't worry I'll be back before this
video is over so the whole point of this
we just kind of come out and have fun
make a fire and I'm just choosing to
keep feeding the fire and hang out and
enjoy the outdoors and I've got lazy
with my fire collecting like I said at
the beginning of this video I never
intended to come out here and like
completely screw up I thought this was
all just kind of a fun experience to a
knife review and I remembered I had an
old piece of pallet wood in the back of
the in the back of a blazer so I'm
feeding it some of that fire just kind
of feels good I mean I don't know what
the temperature outside was I know what
I drew drove over here it was 22 degrees
Fahrenheit I have no idea what that is
below in Celsius but I know it's below
zero Celsius cuz 32 degrees fahrenheit
in zero Celsius 22 that's got to be at
least negative one negative two
Fahrenheit anything going now and
thinking about maybe why am i growing a
little bit today um if I do that'll be a
separate video um but I do have a big
open field here
I'm actually right behind me
where I collected that prairie grass it
might be a good big open space to fly it
a bit oh we do have a little bit of a
breeze today but it's not too bad don't
know how long I'm gonna want to get me
away from this fire though I think Keith
might be coming by today I'm not sure if
he does he may or may not be in this
video but yeah that's a good little fire
and I hope everybody's enjoyed that
knife review I've done oh I'm definitely
gonna keep that thing in my bag um a
good beater knife if nothing else um
everybody needs one of those you know
everybody needs a knife for the things
you're never supposed to use a knife for
um one of my folders actually I've used
from everything for strip and wired a
Phillips screwdriver but you know it's
it's a three dollar knife so I'm not
gonna be brokenhearted when I eventually
break it and I've had it I've had it for
probably I don't know six seven years
now and I paid like three bucks for it
at a flea market see ya I'm just
enjoying my time outdoors today where
that fire feels good should have brought
more coffee oh I think I do have more
coffee I'll be right back I do have more
coffee there's not a lot left in here um
this is a triple a double wall stainless
steel thermos that I picked up I can't
remember if I got it at the goodwill or
um the Salvation Army store I don't
remember which one but it was like less
than two bucks and this thing is amazing
you just pop down in the center and it
opens up
okay so there was a lot in there but
it's a little bit and then you pop it
back the only thing about it is you got
to kind of do that when you're done to
keep the dribbles out of it and it's got
a little lid that you know you can use
as a cup if you want and it works
amazingly well believe it or not like I
think I can stop at the convenience
store on my way to work it's a you know
6:30 or 7:00 o'clock in the morning
whatever time it is and get coffee and
it'll still be hot it's like three or
four o'clock in the afternoon it's
amazing I'm really enjoying this fire
even adding some of the wood from the
last fire I had here oh I brought you
guys along for that oh that was when I
was out here make him lunch yeah that
day that I cooked that Robin and Rotella
I've got some more cook gear that I want
to show you guys two really big monkey
one did an open tag to see everybody's
cook kit um I'm thinking about maybe
taking him up on that and just putting
everything I got as far as outdoor
cookware just out there like that I
don't use all of it all all of the time
I use some of it all the time and most
of it most of the time I guess um anyway
I'm not gonna sit here and bore you guys
to death but uh I don't know I'm
enjoying myself hopefully he will stop
by
alright everybody thanks for hanging out
with me it's been a great time
chillin with y'all for a little bit this
afternoon
if you like what you see please hit the
subscribe button please click the little
Bell please give the thumbs up or wear
the thumbs down if you didn't like what
you see I hope you like what you see
maybe stuck with me this long you
probably did there's more of this to
come there's been more of this in the
past and you're welcome to go back can
we watch my old videos also so anyway
again please like share and subscribe I
love you all until next time be safe
have fun peace out
[Music]